DOCSP-13851: adding a collations page (#117)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/collations.txt

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use **collations** to order your query
or aggregation operation results by string values. A collation is a set of character
ordering conventions that apply to a specific language and locale.

Collations in MongoDB
---------------------

MongoDB sorts strings using *binary collation* by default. This collation
method uses the `ASCII standard <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII>`_
character values to compare and order strings. Certain languages and locales
have specific character ordering conventions that differ from the ASCII
standard.

For example, in Canadian French, the right-most accented character determines
the ordering for strings when the other characters are the same. Consider the
following Canadian French words: 

- cote
- coté
- côte
- côté

When using the default binary collation, MongoDB sorts them in the following order:

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   coté
   côte
   côté

When using the Canadian French collation, MongoDB sorts them in the following order:

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   côte
   coté

>    côté

Reviewer: I did not know other languages have different sort orders haha. Very cool 🧑‍🔧 .

.. code-block:: go

   myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "fr", Strength: 1}
   opts := options.CreateCollection().SetCollation(myCollation)
   err := db.CreateCollection(context.TODO(), "books", opts)

   if err != nil {
      log.Fatal(err)
   }

Use the Default Collation Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you call an operation that uses a collation on the ``books`` collection, the operation
will now use the default collation specified in the :ref:`golang-create-collection`.

Assume the ``books`` collection contains the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"name" : "Emma", "length" : "474"}
   {"name" : "Les Misérables", "length": "1462"}
   {"name" : "Infinite Jest", "length" : "1104"}
   {"name" : "Cryptonomicon", "length" : "918"}
   {"name" : "Ça", "length" : "1138"}

.. note::

   To learn how to insert documents, see :ref:`golang-insert-guide`.
   
The following example uses the ``Find()`` method to return all documents with a ``name`` value
that alphabetically precedes ``"Infinite Jest"``:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input::
      :language: go

      filter := bson.D{{"name", bson.D{{"$lt", "Infinite Jest"}}}}

>       cursor, err := coll.Find(context.TODO(), filter)

Reviewer: Missing an err check below this; you'll overwrite `err` on L132 if you don't check it here.

Author: I added an err check here

      var results []bson.D
      if err = cursor.All(context.TODO(), &results); err != nil {

>          panic(err)

Reviewer: [nit] You `log.Fatal` the err on L96. I think panic'ing or logging it is fine for examples, but might be better to pick one.

Author: Changed this to panic(err) to match the other examples.

for a collection. 

If you apply a new collation to an operation that differs from an index's collation,
you cannot use that index. As a result, the operation may not perform as well as one
that is covered by an index. For more information on the disadvantages of sorting operations
not covered by an index, see :manual:`Using Indexes to Sort Query Results </tutorial/sort-results-with-indexes/>`.
See the :manual:`MongoDB manual </reference/collation/#collation-document>` for a list of
operations that support collation.

Example
~~~~~~~

You can use operations that support collation to update and query documents in the 
``books`` collection. 

The following example uses the ``Find()`` method to return documents with ``length`` 
values greater than ``"1000"``. The ``NumericOrdering`` collation field has a value of
``true`` to ensure that values are sorted in numerical order rather than alphabetical
order:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input::
      :language: go

      filter := bson.D{{"length", bson.D{{"$gt", "1000"}}}}
      myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "en_US", NumericOrdering: true}
      opts := options.Find().SetCollation(myCollation)

>       cursor, err := coll.Find(context.TODO(), filter, opts)

Reviewer: Missing an error check below this `Find`.

Author: Added this

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use **collations** to run
operations using string ordering for specific languages and locales (a

> community or region that shares common language idioms).

Author: I edited this part to introduce the term first, then define it in the next sentence. I used "character ordering conventions" in the definition instead of just "string ordering."

MongoDB sorts strings using *binary collation* by default. This collation
method uses the `ASCII standard <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII>`_
character values to compare and order strings. Languages and locales
have specific character ordering conventions that differ from the ASCII
standard.

For example, in Canadian French, the right-most accented character determines
the ordering for strings when the other characters are the same. Consider the
following French words: **cote**, **coté**, **côte**, and **côté**.

MongoDB sorts them in the following order using the default binary collation:

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   coté
   côte
   côté

MongoDB sorts them in the following order using the Canadian French collation:

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   côte
   coté
   côté

Usage
-----

> You can specify a collation when you create a new collection, view, or index. You can also
> define a collation for specific operations that support collation. 

Reviewer 2: Issue: I believe "support collation" in this sentence means "support collecting and combining". A believe this should say "support specifying a collation. 

Issue: I believe "You can also define a collation for specific operations that support specifying a collation" is a redundant statement. Consider changing to something like this:

```suggestion
You can specify a collation when you create a new collection, view, or index. You can also
specify a collation in a subset of operations. 
```

Specifying a collation on a new collection or view defines the default collation for
any operations called on these objects. Use the ``CreateCollection()`` or ``CreateView()``

> method with an opts parameter to set the collation.

Author: I changed "CreateIndexOptions" to "CreateViewOptions."

Specifying a collation on a new index defines the sort order for operations that 
use that index. To use the collation for the index, you must provide a matching collation for
an operation. Then, use the index with that operation. On an ``Indexes`` object,

> use the ``CreateOne()`` method with an opts parameter to set the collation.

Author: I expanded on the index section: added a better definition of an index, reworded the two conditions for using an index so it's more clear.

Specifying a collation on an operation overrides any default collation previously
defined for a collection. See the :manual:`MongoDB manual </reference/collation/#collation-document>`
for a list of operations that support collation.

Collation Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The collation object contains the following parameters:

.. code-block:: go

   type Collation struct {
     Locale <string>
     CaseLevel <bool>
     CaseFirst <string>
     Strength <int>
     NumericOrdering <bool>
     Alternate <string>
     MaxVariable <string>
     Normalization <bool>
     Backwards <bool>

>    }

Author: I took out the full list of fields and just mentioned that "Locale" is required, and the others are optional (but linked to the full list). I also renamed this section to "Specify a Collation" rather than "Collation Fields," and I moved it to earlier in the page.

to ignore differences in letter accents.

.. code-block:: go

   // specify the collation locale and strength
   collate := &options.Collation{Locale: "fr", Strength: 1}
   
   // specify the opts parameter as the collation
   opts := options.CreateCollection().SetCollation(collate)
	
   // create the "books" collection with the collation opts parameter
   err := db.CreateCollection(context.TODO(), "books", opts)

   if err != nil {
      log.Fatal(err)
   }

Use the Default Collection Collation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you call an operation that supports collation on the ``books`` collection, the operation
will now use the default collation. Assume you want to insert the following documents
into ``books``:

.. code-block:: json

   {"_id", 1}, {"name", "The Brothers Karamazov"}, {"author", "Dostoyevsky"}, {"length", "824"}
   {"_id", 2}, {"name", "Les Misérables"}, {"author", "Hugo"}, {"length", "1462"}
   {"_id", 3}, {"name", "Atlas Shrugged"}, {"author", "Rand"}, {"length", "1088"}
   {"_id", 4}, {"name", "Infinite Jest"}, {"author", "Wallace"}, {"length", "1104"}
   {"_id", 5}, {"name", "Cryptonomicon"}, {"author", "Stephenson"}, {"length", "918"}

>    {"_id", 6}, {"name", "Ça"}, {"author", "King"}, {"length", "1138"}

Author: I fixed the formatting of these documents, took out the "_id" field, and changed the longest book document ("The Brothers Karamazov") to a shorter one ("Emma"). I also took out "Atlas Shrugged."

</reference/collation-locales-defaults/#supported-languages-and-locales>`.

Set a Collation on a Collection or View
---------------------------------------

You can apply a collation when you create a new collection or view. This defines the default
collation for any operations called on that collection or view. Set a collation through a 
``CreateCollectionOptions`` or ``CreateViewOptions`` object. Then, call the
``CreateCollection()`` or ``CreateView()`` method with your options object as an argument.

.. _golang-create-collection:

Create a Collection Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example creates a new collection called ``books`` and specifies a default
collation with the ``"fr"`` locale. The ``Strength`` collation field has a value of ``1``
to ignore differences in letter accents.

.. code-block:: go

   myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "fr", Strength: 1}
   opts := options.CreateCollection().SetCollation(myCollation)
   err := db.CreateCollection(context.TODO(), "books", opts)

   if err != nil {
      log.Fatal(err)
   }

Use the Default Collation Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you call an operation that supports collation on the ``books`` collection, the operation

Reviewer 2: Issue: I believe the term "collation" is used in two different ways in this sentence. The first "supports collation" means "supports collecting and combining" where as the second "collation" means "a way of ordering characters".

Suggestion: change the first usage I.E
```suggestion
If you call an operation that uses a collation on the ``books`` collection, the operation
```

Author: Made this change

   To learn how to insert documents, see :ref:`golang-insert-guide`.
   
The following example uses the ``Find()`` method to return all documents with a ``name`` value
that alphabetically precedes ``"Infinite Jest"``:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input::
      :language: go

      filter := bson.D{{"name", bson.D{{"$lt", "Infinite Jest"}}}}
      cursor, err := coll.Find(context.TODO(), filter)

      var results []bson.D
      if err = cursor.All(context.TODO(), &results); err != nil {
         panic(err)
      }
      for _, result := range results {
         fmt.Println(result)
      }

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      [{name Ça} {length 1138}]
      [{name Cryptonomicon} {length 918}]
      [{name Emma} {length 474}]

Without specifying a default ``books`` collation, the ``Find()`` method would follow default
binary collation rules to determine the ``name`` values that precede ``"Infinite Jest"``. These
rules place words beginning with "Ç" after those beginning with "I". The output would resemble
the following:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   [{name Cryptonomicon} {length 918}]
   [{name Emma} {length 474}]

> See :ref:`golang-retrieve` for help with using the ``Find()`` method.

Reviewer 2: Issue: Using "help" to link to other section (discussed earlier in this [review](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/117#discussion_r937042006)).

```suggestion
To learn more about the `Find()` method, see :ref:`golang-retrieve`.
```

Author: Changed this

   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use **collations** to order your query
or aggregation operation results by string values. A collation is a set of character
ordering conventions that apply to a specific language and locale.

Collations in MongoDB
---------------------

MongoDB sorts strings using *binary collation* by default. This collation
method uses the `ASCII standard <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII>`_
character values to compare and order strings. Certain languages and locales
have specific character ordering conventions that differ from the ASCII
standard.

For example, in Canadian French, the right-most accented character determines
the ordering for strings when the other characters are the same. Consider the
following Canadian French words: 

- cote
- coté
- côte
- côté

When using the default binary collation, MongoDB sorts them in the following order:

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   coté
   côte
   côté

When using the Canadian French collation, MongoDB sorts them in the following order:

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   côte
   coté
   côté

Specify a Collation
-------------------

> To create a Collation object, you must specify a ``Locale`` field; all other fields are

Reviewer 2: Issue: I believe "Collation" object was incorrectly introduced. I believe a reader must be made aware why "creating a Collation object" is necessary to achieve their goal.

Issue: I believe "Collation" in "Collation object" should be monospace as its a type name. This applies elsewhere in this paragraph.

```suggestion
You specify a collation through a ``Collation`` object.
To create a ``Collation`` object, you must specify a ``Locale`` field; all other fields are
```

Author: I included a sentence explaining that you create a collation object to specify a collation, and I used monospace for `Collation`.

optional. For example, the following code snippet specifies a Collation object with
the ``"en_US"`` locale collation:

.. code-block:: go

   myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "en_US"}

> For a complete list of collation fields, visit the `Collation API documentation 

Reviewer 2: Issue: I believe collation here should be monospace and capitalized as you are referring to the `Collation` type. 

```suggestion
For a complete list of ``Collation`` object fields, visit the `Collation API documentation 
```

Author: Made this change

<{+api+}/mongo/options#Collation>`__. To see all the supported locales and the
default values for the ``Locale`` fields, visit :manual:`Supported Languages and Locales
</reference/collation-locales-defaults/#supported-languages-and-locales>`.

Usage
-----

> You can specify a collation when you create a new collection, view, or index. You can also

Author: I changed "specified" to "apply" throughout the page when talking about using an index/operation with a collation. I kept "specify" when showing a new Collations object.

specify a collation in a subset of operations.

Collection or View
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can specify a collation when you create a new collection or view. This defines the default
collation for any operations called on that collection or view. Set a collation through a 
``CreateCollectionOptions`` or ``CreateViewOptions`` object. Then, call the

> ``CreateCollection()`` or ``CreateView()`` method with your options object as an argument.

Reviewer 2: Issue: It's a bit hard to work with this information without a code sample, and it is not immediately obvious that this page contains a code sample for this. Consider implementing one of the following suggestions:

- Move the "Set a Default Collation on a Collection" example to this subsection (my personal preference).
- Add a link to the "Set a Default Collation on a Collection" sample at the end of this subsection.

I prefer the first of the two options as I don't think it makes sense to break up the the prose explanation of the example and the example code across sections.

This comment also applies to the "Index" and "Operation" subsections and their corresponding examples.

Author: Okay I restructured the page so that the explanations and examples are together, let me know what you think.

Reviewer 2: Excellent edit. Really like what you did with this 🙂

Index
~~~~~

You can specify a collation when you create a new index on a collection. The index stores

> an ordered representation of the documents in the collection so your operation does not need

Reviewer 2: Issue: I "your operation" is a bit imprecise here. After reading "operation", I was unsure which exact entity involved in this operation was performing the sorting.

```suggestion
an ordered representation of the documents in the collection so your MongoDB instance does not need
```

to perform the ordering in-memory. 

To use the index in an operation, your operation must specify the same collation as the one
specified in the index. Additionally, ensure that the operation is covered by the index that
contains the collation. Set a collation through an ``IndexOptions`` object and call the
``CreateOne()`` method with your options object as an argument.

Operation
~~~~~~~~~

Specifying a collation on an operation overrides any default collation previously
defined for a collection. If you specify a new collation on an operation that differs

> from the index collation, you cannot use that index. As a result, the operation may not

Reviewer 2: Issue: As a collection can contain multiple indexes, and no specific index is being referenced here (AFAICT), I believe this should be "an index's collation".

```suggestion
from an index's collation, you cannot use that index. As a result, the operation may not
```

Author: Made this change

perform as well as one that is covered by an index. 

For more information on the disadvantages of sorting operations not covered by an index,

> see the server manual page on :manual:`Using Indexes to Sort Query Results </tutorial/sort-results-with-indexes/>`.

Reviewer 2: Issue: I believe the term "server manual" is an internal distinction more than an external distinction. I believe readers generally just see our docs as "MongoDB documentation". I'd avoid using the term "server manual" as a reader likely won't know what this means and won't gain much value from this being stated.

```suggestion
see :manual:`Using Indexes to Sort Query Results </tutorial/sort-results-with-indexes/>`.
```

Author: Took out the reference to the server manual

See the :manual:`MongoDB manual </reference/collation/#collation-document>` for a list of
operations that support collation.

Collation Examples
------------------

.. _golang-collection-collation:

Set a Default Collation on a Collection

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: Issue: Avoid [stacked headings](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/titles-and-headings/#style-and-structure)

Author: I don't have this heading anymore, so no longer an issue

The following example creates a new collection called ``books`` and specifies a default
collation with the ``"fr"`` locale. The ``Strength`` collation field has a value of ``1``
to ignore differences in letter accents.

.. code-block:: go

   myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "fr", Strength: 1}
   opts := options.CreateCollection().SetCollation(myCollation)
   err := db.CreateCollection(context.TODO(), "books", opts)

   if err != nil {
      log.Fatal(err)
   }

Use the Default Collection Collation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you call an operation that supports collation on the ``books`` collection, the operation
will now use the default collation. Assume you want to insert the following documents

> into ``books``:

Reviewer 2: Issue: I'm not sure the reader should "assume they want to insert the following documents" as the collation examples focus on ordering retrieved documents. Consider editing this such that readers have access to some collection "books" which contains the following documents. The edit could read like this:

> The examples in this guide reference the ``books`` collection which contains the following documents:
> \<JSON docs\>

Author: I changed the wording here: I took out the mention of inserting documents, changed it to "Assume the `books` collection contains the following documents" (since the books collection was already referenced in the last section)

.. code-block:: json

   {"name" : "Emma", "author" : "Austen", "length" : "474"}
   {"name" : "Les Misérables", "author" : "Hugo", "length": "1462"}
   {"name" : "Infinite Jest", "author" : "Wallace", "length" : "1104"}
   {"name" : "Cryptonomicon", "author" : "Stephenson", "length" : "918"}

>    {"name" : "Ça", "author" : "King", "length" : "1138"}

Reviewer 2: Issue: As the author field is not used in examples, I believe it should be deleted (adds cognitive load without helping to illustrate concepts of the page).

Author: I took out the author field

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input::
      :language: go

      filter := bson.D{{"name", bson.D{{"$lt", "Infinite Jest"}}}}
      cursor, err := coll.Find(context.TODO(), filter)

      var results []bson.D
      if err = cursor.All(context.TODO(), &results); err != nil {
         panic(err)
      }
      for _, result := range results {
         fmt.Println(result)
      }

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      [{name Ça} {author King} {length 1138}]
      [{name Cryptonomicon} {author Stephenson} {length 918}]
      [{name Emma} {author Austen} {length 474}]

Without specifying a default ``books`` collation, the ``Find()`` method would follow default
binary collation rules to determine the ``name`` values that precede ``"Infinite Jest"``. These
rules place words beginning with "Ç" after those beginning with "I". The output would resemble
the following:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   [{name Cryptonomicon} {author Stephenson} {length 918}]
   [{name Emma} {author Austen} {length 474}]

See :ref:`golang-retrieve` for help with using the ``Find()`` method.

Set a Collation on an Index 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> After creating the ``books`` collection and specifying a collation, you cannot set a new default 
> collation directly. However, you can create an index with a new collation. 

Reviewer 2: Issue: I'm not sure "directly" is needed here. Is there a way you can change the default collation "indirectly" (you can change what collation applies to an operation, but the default collation does not change, so I'd guess no)?

Issue: "create an index with a new collation" seems a bit incorrect (what does "new" mean here? Could you create an index with an "old" collation)?

```suggestion
After creating the ``books`` collection and specifying a collation, you cannot change the collection's default 
collation. However, you can create an index for the collection with a different collation. 
```

Author: Made this change

The following example uses the ``CreateOne()`` method to create an ascending index on the ``name``

> field and specifies a new collation with an ``"en_US"`` locale:

Reviewer 2: Issue: I'm not sure the tenses of "create" and "specifies" agree. 

```suggestion
field and specify a new collation with an ``"en_US"`` locale:
```

Author: I left this as it is -- the tenses of "uses" (as in "uses the CreateOne() method" ...) and "specifies" match so I think it's good (lmk if you still disagree)

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input::
      :language: go

       myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "en_US"}
       opts := options.Index().SetCollation(myCollation)

       indexModel := mongo.IndexModel{
         Keys:    bson.D{{"name", 1}},
         Options: opts,
       }

       name, err := coll.Indexes().CreateOne(context.TODO(), indexModel)
       if err != nil {
         panic(err)
       }
       fmt.Println("Name of Index Created: " + name)

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

       Name of Index Created: name_1

Set a Collation on an Operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Operations that read, update, and delete documents from a collection can use collations. 

Reviewer 2: Issue: This information is less tied to the example than to collations applied to operations as a whole. I believe this belongs in the "Operation" subsection.

Author: That's true, I did want to have some introductory sentence here though so I made it more relevant to the `books` collection ("You can use operations that support collation to update and query documents in the `books` collection.")

Reviewer 2: Issue: I think this update removed important information, I believe it is important that readers are made aware the specific conditions under which they can specify a collation on an operation. Now, as a reader, this information seems tied to the `books` collection, making me think "is this guidance only for the `books` collection? What about this collection is special and makes this guidance apply to it?"

I'd suggest keeping the initial sentence: "Operations that read, update, and delete documents from a collection can use collations." (super useful information) but placing it in the more general section on using a collation on an operation.

The following example uses the ``Find()`` method to return documents with ``length`` 
values greater than ``"1000"``. The ``NumericOrdering`` collation field has a value of

> ``true`` to ensure numeric comparison, rather than string comparison:

Reviewer 2: Issue: I believe the strings (that contain numeric values) are still compared, so I'm not sure it is correct to say "rather than string comparison". I think this should read "numerical order" rather than "alphabetical order" (language from [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collation)).

Applies to text after code snippet as well.

```suggestion
``true`` to ensure values are sorted in numerical order rather than alphabetical order:
```

Author: Yes good point, changed this

      }

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      [{name Infinite Jest} {author Wallace} {length 1104}]
      [{name Ça} {author King} {length 1138}]
      [{name Les Misérables} {author Hugo} {length 1462}] 

Without specifying a collation with a ``NumericOrdering`` field set to ``true``, the
same ``Find()`` operation would compare ``length`` values as strings. For example, the
operation would consider the string ``"824"`` as greater than ``"1000"``. The
output would resemble the following:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false
   
   [{name Emma} {author Austen} {length 474}]
   [{name Cryptonomicon} {author Stephenson} {length 918}]

Additional Information
----------------------

To learn more about the ``Find()`` and ``UpdateOne()`` methods mentioned,
see the following guides:

- :ref:`golang-retrieve`
- :ref:`golang-change-document`

To learn more about collations, visit the following manual pages:

- :manual:`Collation </reference/collation/#collation-document>`
- :manual:`Collation Locales and Default Parameters </reference/collation-locales-defaults/#supported-languages-and-locales>`

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To learn more about any of the methods discussed in this

Reviewer 2: Question: What does "any of" do in this sentence? Is there a reason it was included?

```suggestion
To learn more about the methods discussed in this
```

Author: I took out "any of"

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   coté
   côte
   côté

When using the Canadian French collation, MongoDB sorts them in the following order:

.. code-block:: none

   cote
   côte
   coté
   côté

Specify a Collation
-------------------

To specify a collation, create a ``Collation`` object. You must define the ``Locale`` field
of the ``Collation`` object; all other fields are optional. For example, the following code
snippet specifies a ``Collation`` object with the ``"en_US"`` locale collation:

.. code-block:: go

   myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "en_US"}

For a complete list of ``Collation`` object fields, visit the `Collation API documentation 
<{+api+}/mongo/options#Collation>`__. To see all the supported locales and the
default values for the ``Locale`` fields, visit :manual:`Supported Languages and Locales
</reference/collation-locales-defaults/#supported-languages-and-locales>`.

Usage
-----

For information on applying a collation to a collection, view, index, or operation, navigate
to the following sections:

- :ref:`golang-collection-collation`
- :ref:`golang-index-collation`

> - :ref:`golang-op-collation`

Reviewer 2: Issue: [three levels of headings](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/titles-and-headings/#style-and-structure)

Suggestion: Remove the "Usage" heading and bump all of the ``Set a Collation...`` subsections up to the first heading level (thus making this article have a max heading depth of 2).

Author: Okay, changed the heading levels

.. _golang-create-collection:

Create a Collection Example
```````````````````````````

The following example creates a new collection called ``books`` and specifies a default
collation with the ``"fr"`` locale. The ``Strength`` collation field has a value of ``1``
to ignore differences in letter accents.

.. code-block:: go

   myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "fr", Strength: 1}
   opts := options.CreateCollection().SetCollation(myCollation)
   err := db.CreateCollection(context.TODO(), "books", opts)

   if err != nil {
      log.Fatal(err)
   }

Use the Default Collation Example
`````````````````````````````````

If you call an operation that supports collation on the ``books`` collection, the operation
will now use the default collation.

Assume the ``books`` collection contains the following documents:

.. code-block:: json

   {"name" : "Emma", "length" : "474"}
   {"name" : "Les Misérables", "length": "1462"}
   {"name" : "Infinite Jest", "length" : "1104"}
   {"name" : "Cryptonomicon", "length" : "918"}
   {"name" : "Ça", "length" : "1138"}

.. note::

   To learn how to insert documents, see :ref:`golang-insert-guide`.
   

> You can use an operation with the default collation on the ``books`` collection specified
> in the :ref:`golang-create-collection`. The following example uses the ``Find()`` method

Reviewer 2: Issue/Question: Does this sentence add anything not covered by the first sentence in this section? My guess is no, but I'm not sure.

```suggestion
The following example uses the ``Find()`` method
```

Author: I deleted this sentence and linked the section where the default collation is set in the first sentence of "Use the Default Collation Example"

      cursor, err := coll.Find(context.TODO(), filter)

      var results []bson.D
      if err = cursor.All(context.TODO(), &results); err != nil {
         panic(err)
      }
      for _, result := range results {
         fmt.Println(result)
      }

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      [{name Ça} {length 1138}]
      [{name Cryptonomicon} {length 918}]
      [{name Emma} {length 474}]

Without specifying a default ``books`` collation, the ``Find()`` method would follow default
binary collation rules to determine the ``name`` values that precede ``"Infinite Jest"``. These
rules place words beginning with "Ç" after those beginning with "I". The output would resemble
the following:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   [{name Cryptonomicon} {length 918}]
   [{name Emma} {length 474}]

See :ref:`golang-retrieve` for help with using the ``Find()`` method.

.. _golang-index-collation:

Set a Collation on an Index 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can apply a collation when you create a new index on a collection. The index stores
an ordered representation of the documents in the collection so your MongoDB instance

> does not need to perform the ordering in-memory. 

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Could you clarify when the ordering in-memory takes place? I believe it would only be during a sort?

```suggestion
does not need to perform the ordering in-memory when you perform a sorting operation on your collection. 
```

Author: I clarified that this applies to sorting operations

To use the index in an operation, your operation must use the same collation as the one
specified in the index. Additionally, ensure that the operation is covered by the index that
contains the collation. Set a collation through an ``IndexOptions`` object and call the
``CreateOne()`` method with your options object as an argument.

Example
```````

> After creating the ``books`` collection and applying a default collation, you cannot change

Reviewer 2: Issue: As a reader, if I went directly to the ``Set a Collation on an Index`` section from the righthand TOC, I wouldn't know what this was referring to.

Suggestion: Add a hyper link to where on the page this collection is created.

Author: Made this change

the collection's default collation. However, you can create an index for the collection with
a different collation. 

The following example uses the ``CreateOne()`` method to create an ascending index on the ``name``
field and specifies a new collation with an ``"en_US"`` locale:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input::
      :language: go

       myCollation := &options.Collation{Locale: "en_US"}
       opts := options.Index().SetCollation(myCollation)

       indexModel := mongo.IndexModel{
         Keys:    bson.D{{"name", 1}},
         Options: opts,
       }

       name, err := coll.Indexes().CreateOne(context.TODO(), indexModel)
       if err != nil {
         panic(err)
       }
       fmt.Println("Name of Index Created: " + name)

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

       Name of Index Created: name_1

.. _golang-op-collation:

Set a Collation on an Operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Applying a collation to an operation overrides any default collation previously

> defined for a collection. If you apply a new collation to an operation that differs

Reviewer 2: Issue: It took me two or three reading to realize the first and second sentence in this paragraph are about different things. Consider adding some sort of transition so that it is more clear that one is about a collection and one is about an index.

Author: I put everything about indexes in a separate paragraph.

Reviewer 2: Excellent edit
